What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

'git init' creates a .git directory in the current directory where the command where it was executed. The .git directory indicates that the current directory is now a git repository. This new hidden directory also contains the metadata of all the files in this directory, or, we should now call it, this repository. The metadata also contains the history of this newly created repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?

I think, the staging area is a temporary directory created within the working directory to contain the files being prepared for commit. 

What value do you think it offers?
It can help developers to sort and group files having related logical changes which will then be committed.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?
First, without checking the code, it can be verified that files being committed are part of one logical change as it's part of the batch added to the staging area. Second, this can be further verified by using 'git diff --staged' to perform an isolated comparison of the changes between the staging area and the latest commit in the repository. Changes for the other files currently in the working directory is expected not to be included in this comparison.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
When experimenting on a new feature, or making a version of your software in a different language, or testing a major structure change in your program, creating separate branches for each allows to the developer to safely make those changes without breaking his code. This also gives the developer freedom and alot of confidence to try new things to develop.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?